## Chapter 10. Lists

### 10.1 A list is a sequence

Like a string, a list is a sequence of values. In a string, the values are characters: in a list, they can be any type. The values in a list are called *elements* or sometimes *items*.

The element of a list don't have to be the same type.
```
['spam', 2.0, 5, [10, 20]]
```

#### How to create a new list

* enclose the elements in square brackets ([ and ])

#### Nested list

A list within another list is nested.

#### Empty list

You can create one with empy brackets, [].
You can assign list values to variables.

### 10.2 Lists Are Mutable

The syntax for accessing the elements of a list is the same as for accessing the characters of a string - the bracket operator. The expression inside the brackets specifies the index.

Remember that the indices start at 0.

Unlike strings, lists are mutable. When the bracket operator appears on the left side of an assignment, it identifies the element of the list that will be assigned.

Lists are represented by boxes with the word "list" outside and the elements of the list inside. 

List indices work the same way as string indices:

* Any integer expression can be used as an index.
* If you try to read or write an element that doesn't exist, you get an IndexError.
* If an index has a negative value, it counts backward from the end of the list.

### 10.3 Traversing a List

The most common way to traverse the elements of a list is with a for loop. The syntax is the same as for strings:

#### using in 

This works well if you only need to read the elment of the list. 

```
for cheese in cheeses:
    print(cheese)
```

#### using indices

But if you want to write or update the elements, yu need the indices. A common way to do that is to combine the built-in functions range and len.

```
for i in range(len(numbers)):
    numbers[i] = numbers[i]*2
```

* This loop traverses the list and updates each element.
* ```len``` returns the number of elements in the list.* ```range``` returns a list of indices from 0 to n-1, where n is the length of the list. 
* Each time through the loop, i gets the index of the next element. The assignment statement in the body uses i to read the old value of the element and to assign the new value.

* A for loop over an empty list never runs the body:

```
for x in []:
    print('This never happens')
```

Although a list can contain another list, the nested list still counts as a single element. The length of thi lisf is four.

### 10.4 List Operations

The ```+``` operator concatenates lists.

```
>>> [1, 2, 3] + [4, 5, 6]
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]
```

The ```*``` operator repeats a list a given number of times.

```
>>> [0] * 4
[0, 0, 0, 0]
>>> [1, 2, 3] * 3
[1, 2, 3, 1, 2, 3, 1, 2, 3]
```

### 10.5 List Slices

The slice operator also works on lists.

```
>>> t = ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd', 'e', 'f']
>>> t[1:3]
['b', 'c']
>>> t[:4]
['a', 'b', 'c', 'd']
>>> t[3:]
['d', 'e', 'f']
```

If you omit the first index, the slice starts at the beginning. If you omit the second, the slice goes to the end. So if you omit both, the slice is a copy of the whole list.

```
>>> t[:]
['a', 'b', 'c', 'd', 'e', 'f']
```

Since lists are mutable, it is often useful to make a copy before performing operations that modify lists.

A slice operator on the left side of an assignment can update multiple elements.

```
>>> t = ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd', 'e', 'f']
>>> t[1:3] = ['x', 'y']
>>> t
['a', 'x', 'y', 'd', 'e', 'f']
```

### 10.6 List Methods

Python provides methods that operate on lists. 

* ```append()``` adds a new element to the end of a list.

```
>>> t = ['a', 'b', 'c']
>>> t.append('d')
>>> t
['a', 'b', 'c', 'd']
```

* extend() takes a list as an argument and appends all of the elements.

The example below leaves t2 unmodified.

```
>>> t1 = ['a', 'b', 'c']
>>> t2 = ['d', 'e']
>>> t1.extend(t2)
>>> t1
['a', 'b', 'c', 'd', 'e']
```

* sort() arranges the elements of the list from low to high.

```
>>> t = ['d', 'c', 'e', 'b', 'a']
>>> t.sort()
>>> t
['a', 'b', 'c', 'd', 'e']
```

Most list methods are void, they modify the list and return None. 
If you accidentally write ``` t = t.sort() ```, you will be disappointed with the result.

### 10.7 Map, Filter, and Reduce

* *Augmented assignment statement*

* *Accumulator*
  * ```+=``` operator augmented assignment statement.
    * You can use a variable to accumulate the sum of elements.
  * Adding up the elements of a list is such a common operation that Python provides it as a built-in function ```sum```.

* *Reduce* 
  * A processing pattern that traverses a sequence and accumulates the elements into a single result.
  * It combines a sequence of elements into a single value.
  * Sometimes you can traverse one list while building another. 

* *Map*
  * A processing pattern that traverses a sequence and performs an operation on each element.
  * A map is a way of associating unique objects to every element in a given set. So a map f:A|->B from A to B is a function f such that for every a in A, there is a unique object f(a) in B. The terms function and mapping are synonymous for map. 
[http://mathworld.wolfram.com/Map.html]

* morphism : (수학) 사상 
수학에서 사상(寫像, 문화어: 넘기기, 영어: morphism 모피즘[*])은 수학적 구조를 보존하는 함수의 개념을 추상화한 것이다. 예를 들어 집합의 사상은 임의의 함수이며, 군의 사상은 군 준동형, 위상 공간의 사상은 연속 함수이다.
In mathematics, particularly in category theory, a morphism is a structure-preserving map from one mathematical structure to another one of the same type. The notion of morphism recurs in much of contemporary mathematics. In set theory, morphisms are functions; in linear algebra, linear transformations; in group theory, group homomorphisms; in topology, continuous functions, and so on. 

* *Filter* is an operation. It seledcts some of the elements and filters out the others.
  * To select some of the elements from a list and return a sublist is another common operation.

### 10.8 Deleting Elements

* ```pop```

If you know the index of the element you want, you can use it.

Pop modifies the list and returns the element that was removed. If you don't provide an index, it deletes an returns the last element.

```
>>> t = ['a', 'b', 'c', 'z', 'y', 'x']
>>> x = t.pop(1)
>>> x
'b'
>>> t.pop()
'x'
>>> t
['a', 'c', 'z', 'y']
```

* ```del```

If you don't need the removed value, you can use the del operator.

```
>>> t = ['a', 'b', 'c']
>>> del t[1]
>>> t
['a', 'c']
```

To remove more than one element, you can use del with a slice index.

```
>>> t = ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd', 'e', 'f']
>>> del t[1:5]
>>> t
```

* ```remove```

If you know the element you want to remove (but not the index), you can use remove.
The return value from remove is None.

```
>>> t = ['a', 'b', 'c']
>>> t.remove('b')
>>> t
['a', 'c']
```

The return value from remove is None.
To remove more than one element, you can use del with a slice index.

```
>>> t = ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd', 'e', 'f']
>>> del t[1:5]
>>> t
['a', 'r']
```

As usual, the slice selects all the elements up to but not including the second index.

### 10.9 Lists and Strings

A string is a sequence of characters and a list is a sequence of values, but a list of characters is not the same as a string.

To convert from a string to a list of characters, you can use list.

```
>>> s = 'spam'
>>> t = list(s)
>>> t
['s', 'p', 'a', 'm']
```

List is the name of a built-in function , you should avoid using it as a variable name.
I also avoid l because it looks too much like 1.

* split() 

The list function breaks a string into individual letters. If you want to break a string into words, you can use the split method.

```
>>> s = 'pining for the fojirds'
>>> s.split()
['pining', 'for', 'the', 'fjords']
```

* split(delimiter)

An optional argument called a delimiter specifies which characters to use as word boundaries. The following example uses a hyphen as a delimiter.

```
>>> s = 'spam-spam-spam'
>>> delimiter = '-'
>>> t = s.split(delimiter)
>>> t
['spam', 'spam', 'spam']

```

* join()

'join()' takes a list of strings and concatenates the elements. join is a string method, so you have to invoke it on the delimiter and pass the list as a parameter.

```
>>> t = ['pining', 'for', 'the', 'fjords']
>>> delimiter = ''
>>> s = delimiter.join(t)
>>> s
'pining for the fjords.'
```

To concatenate strings without spaces, you can use the empty string, '', as a delimiter.

### 10.10 Objects and Values

If we have 'a' and 'b' that both refer to a string, there are two possible states. 

* In one case that python only created one string object, and both a and b refer to it.

```
>>> a = 'banana'
>>> b = 'banana'
>>> a is b
True
```

* In another case that you create two lists, you get two objects.

```
>>> a = [1, 2, 3]
>>> b = [1, 2, 3]
>>> a is b
False
```

In this we would say that the two lists are equivalent, because they have the same elements, but no identical, because they are not the same object.

If you evaluate [1, 2, 3], you get a list object whose value is a sequence of integers. If another list has the same elements, we say it has the same value, but it is not the same object.

### 10.11 Aliasing

If a refers to an object and you assign b = a, then both variables refer to the same object:

```
>>> a = [1, 2, 3]
>>> b = a
>>> b is a
True
```

* Reference : The association of a variable with an object
* Aliased: An object with more than one reference has more than one name, so we say that the object is aliased.
If the aliased object is mutable, changes made with one alias affect the other.
```
>>> b[0] = 42
>>> a
[42, 2, 3]
```

Although this behaviour can be useful, it is error-prone. In general, it is safer to avoid aliasing when you are working with mutable objects.

For immutable objects like strings, aliasing is not as much of a problem. 

### 10.12 List Arguments

When you pass a list to a function, the function gets a reference to the list. If the function modifies the list, the caller sees the change. 

```
>>> def delete_head(t):
...     del t[0]
...
>>> letters = ['a', 'b', 'c']
>>> delete_head(letters)
>>> letters
['b', 'c']
```

It is important to distinguish between operations that modify lists and operations that create new lists. 
This difference is important when you write functions that are supposed to modify lists.

```
# append modifies a list and returns None.
>>> t1 = [1, 2]
>>> t2 = t1.append(3)
>>> t1
[1, 2, 3]
>>> t2
None
```

```
# The + operator creates a new list and leaves the original list unchanged.
>>> t3 = t1 + [4]
>>> t1
[1, 2, 3]
>>>t3
[1, 2, 3, 4]
>>> t1	
```

```
def bad_delete_head(t):
    t = t[1:]  # Wrong

>>> t4 = [1, 2, 3]
>>> bad_delete_head(t4)
>>> t4
[1, 2, 3]
```

* TODO: operator 가 새로운 리스트를 만들고 t가 참조할 수 있게 할당한다면 caller 에 영향이 없는 문제 알아보기

* Solution : An alternative is to write a function that creates and returns a new list. 

```
def tail(t):
    return t[1:]
```

Thif function leaves the original list unmodified. Here's how it is used.

```
>>> letters = ['a', 'b', 'c']
>>> rest = tail(letters)
>>> rest
['b', 'c']
```

### 10.13 Debugging

List of some common pifalls and ways to avoid them.

#### (1) 
Most list methods modify the argument and return None. This is the opposite of the string methods, which return a new string and leave the original alone. 

If you are used to writing string code like this.
```
word = word.strip()
```

It is tempting to write list code like this.
```
t = t.sort() # Wrong
```

Because sort returns None, the next operation you perform with t is likely to fail.

Before using list methods and operators, you should read the documentation carefully and then test them in interactive mode.

#### (2) 
Pick an idiom and stick with it.

##### 1)
Part of the problem with lists is that there are too many ways to do things. For example, to remove an element from a list, you can use *pop*, *remove*, *del*, or even a slice assignment.

##### 2)

To add an element, you can use the *append* method, or the *+* operator. Assuming that t is a list and x is a list element, these are correct.

```
t.append(x)
t += [x]
t = t + [x]
```

And these are wrong.
```
>>> t.append([x]) # wrong
>>> t = t.append(x) # wrong
>>> t + ['x'] # wrong
['a', 'b', 'c', 'd', 'x']
>>> t
['a', 'b', 'c', 'd']
>>> t = t + x wrong
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
TypeError: can only concatenate list (not "str") to list
```

##### 3)

Make copies to avoid aliasing.

If you want to use a method liek sort that modifies the argument, but you need to keep the original list as well, you can make a copy.

```
>>> t = [3, 1, 2]
>>> t2 = t[:]
>>> t2.sort()
>>> t
[3, 1, 2]
>>> t2
[1, 2, 3]
```

Also you could use the built-in function worted, which returns a new, sorted list and leaves the original alone.

```
>>> t2 = sorted(t)
>>> t
[3, 1, 2]
>>> t2
[1, 2, 3]
```
