## Chapter 11. Dictionaries

Dictionaries are one of Python's best features, they are the building blocks of many efficient and elegant algorithms. 

It is a built-in type.

### 11.1 A Dictionary Is a Mapping

* Characteristics
  * A dictionary is like a list, but more general. In a list, the indices have to be integers: in a dictionary they can be (almost) any type.
  * A dictionary contains keys which are a collection of indices.
  * A dictionary contains a collection of values.
  * Each key is associated with a single value. This association of a key and a value is called a key-value pair or sometimes an item.

* In Mathematical Language
A dictionary represents a mapping from keys to values, so you can also say that each key 'maps to' a value.
  * As an example, we'll build a dictionary that maps from English to Spanish words, so the keys and the values are all strings.

* dict()
The function dict creates a new dictionary with no items. Because dict is the name of a built-in function , you should avoid using it as a variable name.
  * {} : It represents an empty dictionary. 
  * To add items to the dictionary, you can use square brackets.
    You can create an item that maps from the key to the value. If we print the dictionary again, we see a key-value pair with a colon between the key and value.

    ```
    >>> eng2sp['one'] = 'uno'
    >>> eng2sp
    {'one': 'uno'}
    ```

  * Output format is also an input format, but the order of the key-value pairs might not be the same. In general, the order of items in a dictionary is unpredictable.
    * But that's not a problem because the elements of a dictionary are never indexed with integer indices.
    * Instead, you use the keys to look up the corresponding values.
  
* key - value in dictionary
  * If the key isn't in the dictionary, you get an exception.
  ```
  >>> eng2sp['four']
  KeyError: 'four'
  ```

* methods working on dictionaries.
  * len()
    ```
    >>> len(eng2sp)
    3
    ```
  * values()
    To see whether something appears as a value in a dictionary, you can use the method values, which returns a collection of values, and then use the in operator.
    ```
    >>> vals = eng2sp.values()
    >>> 'uno' in vals
    True
    ```

* operators working on dictionaries.
  * in operator
    * It tells you whether something appears as a key in the dictionary (appearing as a value is not good enough)
      ```
      >>> 'one' in eng2sp
      True
      >>> 'uno' in eng2sp
      False
      ```
    * The in operator uses different algorithms for lists and dictionaries.
      * list - in operator searches the elements of the list in order, as in 'Searching'. As the list gets longer, the search time gets longer in direct proportion.
      * dictionary - Python uses an algorithm called a hashtable that has a remarkable property. The in operator takes about the same amount of the time no matter how many items are in the dictionary.


### 11.2 Dictionary as a Collection of Counters

An implementation is a way of performing a computation. Some implementations are better than others.

For example, an advantage of the dictionary implementation is that we don't have to know ahead of time which letters appear in the string and we only have to make room for the letters that do appear.


* Dictionaries have a method called get that takes a key and a default value.
If the key appears in the dictionary, ```get``` returns the corresponding value; otherwise it returns the default value.

```
>>> h = histogram('a')
>>> h.get('a', 0)
1
>>> h.get('b', 0)
0 # key에 'b'가 없으면 default 값인 0을 반환
```

### 11.3 Looping and Dictionaries

If you use a dictionary in a for statement, it traverses the keys of the dictionary. 
To traverse the keys in sorted order, you can use the built-in function sorted.

### 11.4 Reverse Lookup

* lookup 
  * ```v = d[k]```
  * Given a dictionary d and a key k, it is easy to find the corresponding value v = d[k].

* reverse lookup : when you want to find k, if you have v
  * problem 
    * There might be more than one key that maps to the value v
      * Depending on the application, you might be able to pick one, or you might have to make a list that contains all of them.
    * There is no simple syntax to do a reverse lookup.
      * You have to search.

  * Example
  ```
  def reverse_lookup(d, v):
      for k in d:
          if d[k] == v:
	      return k
      raise LookupError()
  ```


* raise statement

The raise statement causes an exception. Error caused by raise statement is a built-in exception used to indicate that a lookup operation failed.

The effect when you raise an exception is the same as when Python raises one: it prints a traceback and an error message.

The raise statement can take a detailed error message as an optional argument.

```
>>> raise LookupError('value does not appear in the dictionary')
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<stdin>", line 1, in ?
LookupError: value does not appear in the dictionary
```

### 11.5 Dictionaries and Lists

Lists can be values in a dictionary, but they can't be keys.
Each value in the inverted dictionary should be a list of letters.

```
def invert_dict(d):
    inverse = dict()
    for key in d:
        val = d[key]
	if val not in inverse:
	    inverse[val] = [key]
	else:
	    inverse[val].append(key)
    return inverse

print(inver_dict({'a':5, 'b':3, 'c':4, 'a': 3}))
{3: ['a', 'b'], 4: ['c']}
```

Each time through the loop, key gets from d and val gets the corresponding value. If val is not in inverse, that means we haven't seen it before, so we create a new item and initialize it with a singleton. 
* Singleton is a list that contains a single element.

If you try to make list key in a dictionary, you will see this.
Because a dictionary is implemented using a hashtable and that means that the keys have to be hashable.

```
>>> t = [1, 2, 3]
>>> d = dict()
>>> d[t] = 'oops'
Traceback (more recent call last):
  File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
TypeError: unhashable type: 'list'
```

#### 11.5.1 Hash

A hash is a function that takes a value (of any kind) and returns an integer.
Dictionaries use these integers, called hash values, to store and look up key-value pairs.

* The keys are immutable.

This system works fine if the keys are immutable. But if the keys are mutable, like lists, bad things happen. 

For example, when you create a key-value pair, Python hashes the key and then hash it again, it would go to a different location.
In that case you might have two entries for the same key, or you might not be able to find a key. Either way, the dictionary wouldn't work correctly.

That's why keys have to be hashable, and why mutable types like lists aren't. The simplest way to get around this limitation is to use tuples.

* Dictionaries are mutable.

Since dictionaries are mutable, they can't be used as keys, but they can be used as values.

* fibonacci function
  * Solution 1
    To keep track of values that have already been computed by storing them in a dictionary.
    A previously computed value that is stored for later use is called a *memo*.

```
# memoized

known = {0:0, 1:1}

def fibonacci(n):
    if n in known:
        return known[n]
    
    res = fibonacci(n-1) + fibonacci(n-2)
    known[n] = res
    return res
```

Whenever fibonacci is called, it chekcs known. If the result is already there, it can return immediately. Otherwise it has to compute the new value, add it to the dictionary, and return it.

If you run this version of fibonacci and compare it with the original, you will find that it is much faster.

### 11.6 Global Variables

Variables in __main__ are sometimes called global because they can be accessed from any function. Unlike local variables, which disappear when their function ends, global variables persist from one function call to the next.

* flags

It is common to use global variables for flags. That is, boolean variables that indicate ('flag') whether a condition is true. 

Some programs use a flag named verbose to control the level of detail in the output.

```
verbose = True

def example():
    if verbose:
        print('Running example1')
```

If you reassign a global variable in the function, the value doesn't change. The problem is that the function creates a new local variable which was used outside of the function. 
That's why the local variable goes away when the function ends, and has no effect on the global variable.

To reassign a global variable inside a function you have to declare the global variable before you use it.

```
been_called = False

def example2():
    global been_called
    been_called = True
```

* UnboundLocalError

```
>>> count = 0
>>> def example3():
...    count += 1
...
>>> example3()
UnboundLocalError: local variable 'count' referenced before assignment
```

If a global variable refers to a mutable value, you can modify the value without declaring the variable. 
* 참고 : https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immutable_object

So you can add, remove and replace elements of a global list or dictionary, but if you want to reassign the variable, you have to declare it.

```
def example5():
    global known
    known = dict()
```

Global variables can be useful, but if you have a lot of them, and you modify them frequently, they can make programs hard to debug.

### 11.7 Debugging

As you work with bigger datasets, it can become unwidely to debug py printing and checking the output by hand. Here are some suggestion for debugging larget datasets.

* Scale down the input
If possible, reduce the size of the dataset.

* Check summaries and types
Instead of printing and checking the entire dataset, consider printing summaries of the data.

A common cause of runtime errors is a value that is not the right type. So print the type of a value.

* Write self-checks
Sometimes you can write code to check for errors automatically.
So called 'sanity check' it detect result that are insane.

Another kind of check compares the rsults of two different computations to see if they are consistent. This is called a 'consistency check'.

* Format the output
Formatting debugging output can make it easier to spot an error.
The pprint module provides a pprint function that displays built-in types in a more human-readable format. (*pprint stands for 'pretty print')


