# Chapter 15

Object-oriented programming uses programmer-defined types to organize both code and data. 

## 15.1 Programmer-Defined Types

Class is a type that a programmer defines.
Creating a new type is more complicated than the other options, but it has advantages that will be apparent.

### 15.1.1 Creating Objects : Instantiation

The class object is like a factory for creating objects, which is called instances. 

### 15.1.2 Creating Objects : Point
To create a Point Objects, you call Point as if it were a function. Defining a class named Point creates a class object.
Because Point is defined at the top level, its full name is `__main__.Point`.

```
>>> blank = Point() # The return value is a reference to a Point object, which we assign to blank.
>>> blank
<__main__.Point object at 0x10b47c518> # Python tells you what class it belongs to and where it is stored in memory.
```

Every object is an instance of some class, so "object" and "instance" are interchangable.

## 15.2 Attributes

Attributes are Assigning Values to an instance

For other language, attribute and field is interchangable.
Each of function or class is created within a module, but the attributes are created by the number of instances.

```
>>> blank.x = 3.0
>>> blank.y = 4.0
```

Variable(*blank*) refers to a Point object, which contains attributes. Each attribute refers to data.

## 15.3 Rectangles

An object that is an attribute of another object can be embedded.

## 15.4 Instances as Return Values

Functions can return instances. 
Function can take an instance as an argument and returns other instance.

## 15.5 Objects Are Mutable

You can change the state of an object by making an assignment to one of its attributes.

## 15.6 Copying

Copying an object is often an alternative to aliasing.
Copy module contains a function called copy (``` import copy```) that can duplicate any object.

For instances, the default behavior of the ``` == ``` operator is the same as the ``` is ``` operator. 
It checks object identity, not object equivalence. That's because for programmer-defined types, Python doesn't know what should be considered equivalent. (At least, not yet.)

### 15.6.1 Shallow Copy

```from copy import copy```

If you use copy.copy to duplicate a Rectangle, you will find that it copies the instance but not the embedded instance that former instance has. 
Shallow copy copies the object and any references it contains, but not the embedded objects.

### 15.6.2 Deep Copy

```from copy import deepcopy```

Deepcopy copies not only the object but also the obejcts it refers to, and the objects they refer to, and so on. 

## 15.7 Debugging

### 15.7.1 Attribute Error
If you try to access an attribute that doesn't exist, you get an Attribute Error.

```
>>> p = Point()
>>> p.x = 3
>>> p.y = 4
>>> p.z
AttributeError: Point instance has no attribute 'z'
```

### 15.7.2 Check object type
If you're not sure what type an object is, you can ask: 

```
>>> type(p)
<class '__main__.Point'>
```

### 15.7.3 Check whether an object is an instance of a class:

```
>>> isinstance(p, Point)
True
```

### 15.7.4 Check whether an object has a particular attribute:

```
>>> hasattr(p, 'x')
True
>>> hasattr(p, 'z')
False
```
